[ ![](https://tensorflow.google.cn/images/tf_logo_32px.png) TensorFlow 1
version](/versions/r1.15/api_docs/python/tf/linalg/LinearOperatorCirculant) |
[ ![](https://tensorflow.google.cn/images/GitHub-Mark-32px.png) View source on
GitHub
](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator_circulant.py#L500-L736)  
---|---  
  
## Class `LinearOperatorCirculant`

`LinearOperator` acting like a circulant matrix.

### Aliases:

  * Class [`tf.compat.v1.linalg.LinearOperatorCirculant`](/api_docs/python/tf/linalg/LinearOperatorCirculant)
  * Class [`tf.compat.v2.linalg.LinearOperatorCirculant`](/api_docs/python/tf/linalg/LinearOperatorCirculant)

This operator acts like a circulant matrix `A` with shape `[B1,...,Bb, N, N]`
for some `b >= 0`. The first `b` indices index a batch member. For every batch
index `(i1,...,ib)`, `A[i1,...,ib, : :]` is an `N x N` matrix. This matrix `A`
is not materialized, but for purposes of broadcasting this shape will be
relevant.

#### Description in terms of circulant matrices

Circulant means the entries of `A` are generated by a single vector, the
convolution kernel `h`: `A_{mn} := h_{m-n mod N}`. With `h = [w, x, y, z]`,

    
    
    A = |w z y x|
        |x w z y|
        |y x w z|
        |z y x w|
    

This means that the result of matrix multiplication `v = Au` has `Lth` column
given circular convolution between `h` with the `Lth` column of `u`.

See http://ee.stanford.edu/~gray/toeplitz.pdf

#### Description in terms of the frequency spectrum

There is an equivalent description in terms of the [batch] spectrum `H` and
Fourier transforms. Here we consider `A.shape = [N, N]` and ignore batch
dimensions. Define the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) and its inverse by

    
    
    DFT[ h[n] ] = H[k] := sum_{n = 0}^{N - 1} h_n e^{-i 2pi k n / N}
    IDFT[ H[k] ] = h[n] = N^{-1} sum_{k = 0}^{N - 1} H_k e^{i 2pi k n / N}
    

From these definitions, we see that

    
    
    H[0] = sum_{n = 0}^{N - 1} h_n
    H[1] = "the first positive frequency"
    H[N - 1] = "the first negative frequency"
    

Loosely speaking, with `*` element-wise multiplication, matrix multiplication
is equal to the action of a Fourier multiplier: `A u = IDFT[ H * DFT[u] ]`.
Precisely speaking, given `[N, R]` matrix `u`, let `DFT[u]` be the `[N, R]`
matrix with `rth` column equal to the DFT of the `rth` column of `u`. Define
the `IDFT` similarly. Matrix multiplication may be expressed columnwise:

`(A u)_r = IDFT[ H * (DFT[u])_r ]`

#### Operator properties deduced from the spectrum.

Letting `U` be the `kth` Euclidean basis vector, and `U = IDFT[u]`. The above
formulas show that`A U = H_k * U`. We conclude that the elements of `H` are
the eigenvalues of this operator. Therefore

  * This operator is positive definite if and only if `Real{H} > 0`.

A general property of Fourier transforms is the correspondence between
Hermitian functions and real valued transforms.

Suppose `H.shape = [B1,...,Bb, N]`. We say that `H` is a Hermitian spectrum
if, with `%` meaning modulus division,

`H[..., n % N] = ComplexConjugate[ H[..., (-n) % N] ]`

  * This operator corresponds to a real matrix if and only if `H` is Hermitian.
  * This operator is self-adjoint if and only if `H` is real.

See e.g. "Discrete-Time Signal Processing", Oppenheim and Schafer.

#### Example of a self-adjoint positive definite operator

    
    
    # spectrum is real ==> operator is self-adjoint
    # spectrum is positive ==> operator is positive definite
    spectrum = [6., 4, 2]
    
    operator = LinearOperatorCirculant(spectrum)
    
    # IFFT[spectrum]
    operator.convolution_kernel()
    ==> [4 + 0j, 1 + 0.58j, 1 - 0.58j]
    
    operator.to_dense()
    ==> [[4 + 0.0j, 1 - 0.6j, 1 + 0.6j],
         [1 + 0.6j, 4 + 0.0j, 1 - 0.6j],
         [1 - 0.6j, 1 + 0.6j, 4 + 0.0j]]
    

#### Example of defining in terms of a real convolution kernel

    
    
    # convolution_kernel is real ==> spectrum is Hermitian.
    convolution_kernel = [1., 2., 1.]]
    spectrum = tf.signal.fft(tf.cast(convolution_kernel, tf.complex64))
    
    # spectrum is Hermitian ==> operator is real.
    # spectrum is shape [3] ==> operator is shape [3, 3]
    # We force the input/output type to be real, which allows this to operate
    # like a real matrix.
    operator = LinearOperatorCirculant(spectrum, input_output_dtype=tf.float32)
    
    operator.to_dense()
    ==> [[ 1, 1, 2],
         [ 2, 1, 1],
         [ 1, 2, 1]]
    

#### Example of Hermitian spectrum

    
    
    # spectrum is shape [3] ==> operator is shape [3, 3]
    # spectrum is Hermitian ==> operator is real.
    spectrum = [1, 1j, -1j]
    
    operator = LinearOperatorCirculant(spectrum)
    
    operator.to_dense()
    ==> [[ 0.33 + 0j,  0.91 + 0j, -0.24 + 0j],
         [-0.24 + 0j,  0.33 + 0j,  0.91 + 0j],
         [ 0.91 + 0j, -0.24 + 0j,  0.33 + 0j]
    

#### Example of forcing real `dtype` when spectrum is Hermitian

    
    
    # spectrum is shape [4] ==> operator is shape [4, 4]
    # spectrum is real ==> operator is self-adjoint
    # spectrum is Hermitian ==> operator is real
    # spectrum has positive real part ==> operator is positive-definite.
    spectrum = [6., 4, 2, 4]
    
    # Force the input dtype to be float32.
    # Cast the output to float32.  This is fine because the operator will be
    # real due to Hermitian spectrum.
    operator = LinearOperatorCirculant(spectrum, input_output_dtype=tf.float32)
    
    operator.shape
    ==> [4, 4]
    
    operator.to_dense()
    ==> [[4, 1, 0, 1],
         [1, 4, 1, 0],
         [0, 1, 4, 1],
         [1, 0, 1, 4]]
    
    # convolution_kernel = tf.signal.ifft(spectrum)
    operator.convolution_kernel()
    ==> [4, 1, 0, 1]
    

#### Performance

Suppose `operator` is a `LinearOperatorCirculant` of shape `[N, N]`, and
`x.shape = [N, R]`. Then

  * `operator.matmul(x)` is `O(R*N*Log[N])`
  * `operator.solve(x)` is `O(R*N*Log[N])`
  * `operator.determinant()` involves a size `N` `reduce_prod`.

If instead `operator` and `x` have shape `[B1,...,Bb, N, N]` and `[B1,...,Bb,
N, R]`, every operation increases in complexity by `B1*...*Bb`.

#### Matrix property hints

This `LinearOperator` is initialized with boolean flags of the form `is_X`,
for `X = non_singular, self_adjoint, positive_definite, square`. These have
the following meaning:

  * If `is_X == True`, callers should expect the operator to have the property `X`. This is a promise that should be fulfilled, but is _not_ a runtime assert. For example, finite floating point precision may result in these promises being violated.
  * If `is_X == False`, callers should expect the operator to not have `X`.
  * If `is_X == None` (the default), callers should have no expectation either way.

## `__init__`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator_circulant.py#L683-L736)

    
    
    __init__(
        spectrum,
        input_output_dtype=tf.dtypes.complex64,
        is_non_singular=None,
        is_self_adjoint=None,
        is_positive_definite=None,
        is_square=True,
        name='LinearOperatorCirculant'
    )
    

Initialize an `LinearOperatorCirculant`.

This `LinearOperator` is initialized to have shape `[B1,...,Bb, N, N]` by
providing `spectrum`, a `[B1,...,Bb, N]` `Tensor`.

If `input_output_dtype = DTYPE`:

  * Arguments to methods such as `matmul` or `solve` must be `DTYPE`.
  * Values returned by all methods, such as `matmul` or `determinant` will be cast to `DTYPE`.

Note that if the spectrum is not Hermitian, then this operator corresponds to
a complex matrix with non-zero imaginary part. In this case, setting
`input_output_dtype` to a real type will forcibly cast the output to be real,
resulting in incorrect results!

If on the other hand the spectrum is Hermitian, then this operator corresponds
to a real-valued matrix, and setting `input_output_dtype` to a real type is
fine.

#### Args:

  * **`spectrum`** : Shape `[B1,...,Bb, N]` `Tensor`. Allowed dtypes: `float16`, `float32`, `float64`, `complex64`, `complex128`. Type can be different than `input_output_dtype`
  * **`input_output_dtype`** : `dtype` for input/output.
  * **`is_non_singular`** : Expect that this operator is non-singular.
  * **`is_self_adjoint`** : Expect that this operator is equal to its hermitian transpose. If `spectrum` is real, this will always be true.
  * **`is_positive_definite`** : Expect that this operator is positive definite, meaning the quadratic form `x^H A x` has positive real part for all nonzero `x`. Note that we do not require the operator to be self-adjoint to be positive-definite. See: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Positive-definite_matrix  
#Extension_for_non_symmetric_matrices

  * **`is_square`** : Expect that this operator acts like square [batch] matrices.
  * **`name`** : A name to prepend to all ops created by this class.

## Properties

### `H`

Returns the adjoint of the current `LinearOperator`.

Given `A` representing this `LinearOperator`, return `A*`. Note that calling
`self.adjoint()` and `self.H` are equivalent.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`LinearOperator` which represents the adjoint of this `LinearOperator`.

### `batch_shape`

`TensorShape` of batch dimensions of this `LinearOperator`.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `TensorShape([B1,...,Bb])`, equivalent to
`A.get_shape()[:-2]`

#### Returns:

`TensorShape`, statically determined, may be undefined.

### `block_depth`

Depth of recursively defined circulant blocks defining this `Operator`.

With `A` the dense representation of this `Operator`,

`block_depth = 1` means `A` is symmetric circulant. For example,

    
    
    A = |w z y x|
        |x w z y|
        |y x w z|
        |z y x w|
    

`block_depth = 2` means `A` is block symmetric circulant with symemtric
circulant blocks. For example, with `W`, `X`, `Y`, `Z` symmetric circulant,

    
    
    A = |W Z Y X|
        |X W Z Y|
        |Y X W Z|
        |Z Y X W|
    

`block_depth = 3` means `A` is block symmetric circulant with block symmetric
circulant blocks.

#### Returns:

Python `integer`.

### `block_shape`

### `domain_dimension`

Dimension (in the sense of vector spaces) of the domain of this operator.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `N`.

#### Returns:

`Dimension` object.

### `dtype`

The `DType` of `Tensor`s handled by this `LinearOperator`.

### `graph_parents`

List of graph dependencies of this `LinearOperator`.

### `is_non_singular`

### `is_positive_definite`

### `is_self_adjoint`

### `is_square`

Return `True/False` depending on if this operator is square.

### `range_dimension`

Dimension (in the sense of vector spaces) of the range of this operator.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `M`.

#### Returns:

`Dimension` object.

### `shape`

`TensorShape` of this `LinearOperator`.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `TensorShape([B1,...,Bb, M, N])`, equivalent to
`A.get_shape()`.

#### Returns:

`TensorShape`, statically determined, may be undefined.

### `spectrum`

### `tensor_rank`

Rank (in the sense of tensors) of matrix corresponding to this operator.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `b + 2`.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

Python integer, or None if the tensor rank is undefined.

## Methods

### `add_to_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L1014-L1027)

    
    
    add_to_tensor(
        x,
        name='add_to_tensor'
    )
    

Add matrix represented by this operator to `x`. Equivalent to `A + x`.

#### Args:

  * **`x`** : `Tensor` with same `dtype` and shape broadcastable to `self.shape`.
  * **`name`** : A name to give this `Op`.

#### Returns:

A `Tensor` with broadcast shape and same `dtype` as `self`.

### `adjoint`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L870-L885)

    
    
    adjoint(name='adjoint')
    

Returns the adjoint of the current `LinearOperator`.

Given `A` representing this `LinearOperator`, return `A*`. Note that calling
`self.adjoint()` and `self.H` are equivalent.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`LinearOperator` which represents the adjoint of this `LinearOperator`.

### `assert_hermitian_spectrum`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator_circulant.py#L328-L348)

    
    
    assert_hermitian_spectrum(name='assert_hermitian_spectrum')
    

Returns an `Op` that asserts this operator has Hermitian spectrum.

This operator corresponds to a real-valued matrix if and only if its spectrum
is Hermitian.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name to give this `Op`.

#### Returns:

An `Op` that asserts this operator has Hermitian spectrum.

### `assert_non_singular`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L484-L502)

    
    
    assert_non_singular(name='assert_non_singular')
    

Returns an `Op` that asserts this operator is non singular.

This operator is considered non-singular if

    
    
    ConditionNumber < max{100, range_dimension, domain_dimension} * eps,
    eps := np.finfo(self.dtype.as_numpy_dtype).eps
    

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A string name to prepend to created ops.

#### Returns:

An `Assert` `Op`, that, when run, will raise an `InvalidArgumentError` if the
operator is singular.

### `assert_positive_definite`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L520-L535)

    
    
    assert_positive_definite(name='assert_positive_definite')
    

Returns an `Op` that asserts this operator is positive definite.

Here, positive definite means that the quadratic form `x^H A x` has positive
real part for all nonzero `x`. Note that we do not require the operator to be
self-adjoint to be positive definite.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name to give this `Op`.

#### Returns:

An `Assert` `Op`, that, when run, will raise an `InvalidArgumentError` if the
operator is not positive definite.

### `assert_self_adjoint`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L547-L561)

    
    
    assert_self_adjoint(name='assert_self_adjoint')
    

Returns an `Op` that asserts this operator is self-adjoint.

Here we check that this operator is _exactly_ equal to its hermitian
transpose.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A string name to prepend to created ops.

#### Returns:

An `Assert` `Op`, that, when run, will raise an `InvalidArgumentError` if the
operator is not self-adjoint.

### `batch_shape_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L318-L338)

    
    
    batch_shape_tensor(name='batch_shape_tensor')
    

Shape of batch dimensions of this operator, determined at runtime.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns a `Tensor` holding `[B1,...,Bb]`.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`int32` `Tensor`

### `block_shape_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator_circulant.py#L180-L182)

    
    
    block_shape_tensor()
    

Shape of the block dimensions of `self.spectrum`.

### `cholesky`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L915-L938)

    
    
    cholesky(name='cholesky')
    

Returns a Cholesky factor as a `LinearOperator`.

Given `A` representing this `LinearOperator`, if `A` is positive definite
self-adjoint, return `L`, where `A = L L^T`, i.e. the cholesky decomposition.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`LinearOperator` which represents the lower triangular matrix in the Cholesky
decomposition.

#### Raises:

  * **`ValueError`** : When the `LinearOperator` is not hinted to be positive definite and self adjoint.

### `convolution_kernel`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator_circulant.py#L284-L298)

    
    
    convolution_kernel(name='convolution_kernel')
    

Convolution kernel corresponding to `self.spectrum`.

The `D` dimensional DFT of this kernel is the frequency domain spectrum of
this operator.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name to give this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`Tensor` with `dtype` `self.dtype`.

### `determinant`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L677-L694)

    
    
    determinant(name='det')
    

Determinant for every batch member.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`Tensor` with shape `self.batch_shape` and same `dtype` as `self`.

#### Raises:

  * **`NotImplementedError`** : If `self.is_square` is `False`.

### `diag_part`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L965-L991)

    
    
    diag_part(name='diag_part')
    

Efficiently get the [batch] diagonal part of this operator.

If this operator has shape `[B1,...,Bb, M, N]`, this returns a `Tensor`
`diagonal`, of shape `[B1,...,Bb, min(M, N)]`, where `diagonal[b1,...,bb, i] =
self.to_dense()[b1,...,bb, i, i]`.

    
    
    my_operator = LinearOperatorDiag([1., 2.])
    
    # Efficiently get the diagonal
    my_operator.diag_part()
    ==> [1., 2.]
    
    # Equivalent, but inefficient method
    tf.linalg.diag_part(my_operator.to_dense())
    ==> [1., 2.]
    

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

  * **`diag_part`** : A `Tensor` of same `dtype` as self.

### `domain_dimension_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L393-L414)

    
    
    domain_dimension_tensor(name='domain_dimension_tensor')
    

Dimension (in the sense of vector spaces) of the domain of this operator.

Determined at runtime.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `N`.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`int32` `Tensor`

### `inverse`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L890-L913)

    
    
    inverse(name='inverse')
    

Returns the Inverse of this `LinearOperator`.

Given `A` representing this `LinearOperator`, return a `LinearOperator`
representing `A^-1`.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name scope to use for ops added by this method.

#### Returns:

`LinearOperator` representing inverse of this matrix.

#### Raises:

  * **`ValueError`** : When the `LinearOperator` is not hinted to be `non_singular`.

### `log_abs_determinant`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L706-L723)

    
    
    log_abs_determinant(name='log_abs_det')
    

Log absolute value of determinant for every batch member.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`Tensor` with shape `self.batch_shape` and same `dtype` as `self`.

#### Raises:

  * **`NotImplementedError`** : If `self.is_square` is `False`.

### `matmul`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L574-L627)

    
    
    matmul(
        x,
        adjoint=False,
        adjoint_arg=False,
        name='matmul'
    )
    

Transform [batch] matrix `x` with left multiplication: `x --> Ax`.

    
    
    # Make an operator acting like batch matrix A.  Assume A.shape = [..., M, N]
    operator = LinearOperator(...)
    operator.shape = [..., M, N]
    
    X = ... # shape [..., N, R], batch matrix, R > 0.
    
    Y = operator.matmul(X)
    Y.shape
    ==> [..., M, R]
    
    Y[..., :, r] = sum_j A[..., :, j] X[j, r]
    

#### Args:

  * **`x`** : `LinearOperator` or `Tensor` with compatible shape and same `dtype` as `self`. See class docstring for definition of compatibility.
  * **`adjoint`** : Python `bool`. If `True`, left multiply by the adjoint: `A^H x`.
  * **`adjoint_arg`** : Python `bool`. If `True`, compute `A x^H` where `x^H` is the hermitian transpose (transposition and complex conjugation).
  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

A `LinearOperator` or `Tensor` with shape `[..., M, R]` and same `dtype` as
`self`.

### `matvec`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L634-L667)

    
    
    matvec(
        x,
        adjoint=False,
        name='matvec'
    )
    

Transform [batch] vector `x` with left multiplication: `x --> Ax`.

    
    
    # Make an operator acting like batch matric A.  Assume A.shape = [..., M, N]
    operator = LinearOperator(...)
    
    X = ... # shape [..., N], batch vector
    
    Y = operator.matvec(X)
    Y.shape
    ==> [..., M]
    
    Y[..., :] = sum_j A[..., :, j] X[..., j]
    

#### Args:

  * **`x`** : `Tensor` with compatible shape and same `dtype` as `self`. `x` is treated as a [batch] vector meaning for every set of leading dimensions, the last dimension defines a vector. See class docstring for definition of compatibility.
  * **`adjoint`** : Python `bool`. If `True`, left multiply by the adjoint: `A^H x`.
  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

A `Tensor` with shape `[..., M]` and same `dtype` as `self`.

### `range_dimension_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L432-L453)

    
    
    range_dimension_tensor(name='range_dimension_tensor')
    

Dimension (in the sense of vector spaces) of the range of this operator.

Determined at runtime.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `M`.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`int32` `Tensor`

### `shape_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L284-L302)

    
    
    shape_tensor(name='shape_tensor')
    

Shape of this `LinearOperator`, determined at runtime.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns a `Tensor` holding `[B1,...,Bb, M, N]`, equivalent to
[`tf.shape(A)`](https://tensorflow.google.cn/api_docs/python/tf/shape).

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`int32` `Tensor`

### `solve`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L740-L813)

    
    
    solve(
        rhs,
        adjoint=False,
        adjoint_arg=False,
        name='solve'
    )
    

Solve (exact or approx) `R` (batch) systems of equations: `A X = rhs`.

The returned `Tensor` will be close to an exact solution if `A` is well
conditioned. Otherwise closeness will vary. See class docstring for details.

#### Examples:

    
    
    # Make an operator acting like batch matrix A.  Assume A.shape = [..., M, N]
    operator = LinearOperator(...)
    operator.shape = [..., M, N]
    
    # Solve R > 0 linear systems for every member of the batch.
    RHS = ... # shape [..., M, R]
    
    X = operator.solve(RHS)
    # X[..., :, r] is the solution to the r'th linear system
    # sum_j A[..., :, j] X[..., j, r] = RHS[..., :, r]
    
    operator.matmul(X)
    ==> RHS
    

#### Args:

  * **`rhs`** : `Tensor` with same `dtype` as this operator and compatible shape. `rhs` is treated like a [batch] matrix meaning for every set of leading dimensions, the last two dimensions defines a matrix. See class docstring for definition of compatibility.
  * **`adjoint`** : Python `bool`. If `True`, solve the system involving the adjoint of this `LinearOperator`: `A^H X = rhs`.
  * **`adjoint_arg`** : Python `bool`. If `True`, solve `A X = rhs^H` where `rhs^H` is the hermitian transpose (transposition and complex conjugation).
  * **`name`** : A name scope to use for ops added by this method.

#### Returns:

`Tensor` with shape `[...,N, R]` and same `dtype` as `rhs`.

#### Raises:

  * **`NotImplementedError`** : If `self.is_non_singular` or `is_square` is False.

### `solvevec`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L821-L868)

    
    
    solvevec(
        rhs,
        adjoint=False,
        name='solve'
    )
    

Solve single equation with best effort: `A X = rhs`.

The returned `Tensor` will be close to an exact solution if `A` is well
conditioned. Otherwise closeness will vary. See class docstring for details.

#### Examples:

    
    
    # Make an operator acting like batch matrix A.  Assume A.shape = [..., M, N]
    operator = LinearOperator(...)
    operator.shape = [..., M, N]
    
    # Solve one linear system for every member of the batch.
    RHS = ... # shape [..., M]
    
    X = operator.solvevec(RHS)
    # X is the solution to the linear system
    # sum_j A[..., :, j] X[..., j] = RHS[..., :]
    
    operator.matvec(X)
    ==> RHS
    

#### Args:

  * **`rhs`** : `Tensor` with same `dtype` as this operator. `rhs` is treated like a [batch] vector meaning for every set of leading dimensions, the last dimension defines a vector. See class docstring for definition of compatibility regarding batch dimensions.
  * **`adjoint`** : Python `bool`. If `True`, solve the system involving the adjoint of this `LinearOperator`: `A^H X = rhs`.
  * **`name`** : A name scope to use for ops added by this method.

#### Returns:

`Tensor` with shape `[...,N]` and same `dtype` as `rhs`.

#### Raises:

  * **`NotImplementedError`** : If `self.is_non_singular` or `is_square` is False.

### `tensor_rank_tensor`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L357-L375)

    
    
    tensor_rank_tensor(name='tensor_rank_tensor')
    

Rank (in the sense of tensors) of matrix corresponding to this operator.

If this operator acts like the batch matrix `A` with `A.shape = [B1,...,Bb, M,
N]`, then this returns `b + 2`.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

`int32` `Tensor`, determined at runtime.

### `to_dense`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L956-L959)

    
    
    to_dense(name='to_dense')
    

Return a dense (batch) matrix representing this operator.

### `trace`

[View
source](https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow/blob/r2.0/tensorflow/python/ops/linalg/linear_operator.py#L996-L1008)

    
    
    trace(name='trace')
    

Trace of the linear operator, equal to sum of `self.diag_part()`.

If the operator is square, this is also the sum of the eigenvalues.

#### Args:

  * **`name`** : A name for this `Op`.

#### Returns:

Shape `[B1,...,Bb]` `Tensor` of same `dtype` as `self`.

