
Input() is used to instantiate a Keras tensor.
### Aliases:
- `tf.compat.v1.keras.Input`
- `tf.compat.v1.keras.layers.Input`
- `tf.compat.v2.keras.Input`
- `tf.compat.v2.keras.layers.Input`
- `tf.keras.layers.Input`

```
 tf.keras.Input(
    shape=None,
    batch_size=None,
    name=None,
    dtype=None,
    sparse=False,
    tensor=None,
    ragged=False,
    **kwargs
)
```
### Used in the guide:
- ``K``e``r``a``s`` ``o``v``e``r``v``i``e``w``
- ``M``a``s``k``i``n``g`` ``a``n``d`` ``p``a``d``d``i``n``g`` ``w``i``t``h`` ``K``e``r``a``s``
- ``R``e``c``u``r``r``e``n``t`` ``N``e``u``r``a``l`` ``N``e``t``w``o``r``k``s`` ``(``R``N``N``)`` ``w``i``t``h`` ``K``e``r``a``s``
- ``S``a``v``e`` ``a``n``d`` ``s``e``r``i``a``l``i``z``e`` ``m``o``d``e``l``s`` ``w``i``t``h`` ``K``e``r``a``s``
- ``T``h``e`` ``K``e``r``a``s`` ``f``u``n``c``t``i``o``n``a``l`` ``A``P``I`` ``i``n`` ``T``e``n``s``o``r``F``l``o``w``
- ``T``r``a``i``n`` ``a``n``d`` ``e``v``a``l``u``a``t``e`` ``w``i``t``h`` ``K``e``r``a``s``
- ``U``s``e`` ``a`` ``G``P``U``
- ``W``r``i``t``i``n``g`` ``c``u``s``t``o``m`` ``l``a``y``e``r``s`` ``a``n``d`` ``m``o``d``e``l``s`` ``w``i``t``h`` ``K``e``r``a``s``
### Used in the tutorials:
- ``I``m``a``g``e`` ``s``e``g``m``e``n``t``a``t``i``o``n``
- ``L``o``a``d`` ``a`` ``p``a``n``d``a``s``.``D``a``t``a``F``r``a``m``e``
- ``P``i``x``2``P``i``x``
- ``S``a``v``e`` ``a``n``d`` ``l``o``a``d`` ``a`` ``m``o``d``e``l`` ``u``s``i``n``g`` ``a`` ``d``i``s``t``r``i``b``u``t``i``o``n`` ``s``t``r``a``t``e``g``y``
- ``S``a``v``e`` ``a``n``d`` ``l``o``a``d`` ``m``o``d``e``l``s``

A Keras tensor is a tensor object from the underlying backend (Theano or TensorFlow), which we augment with certain attributes that allow us to build a Keras model just by knowing the inputs and outputs of the model.

For instance, if a, b and c are Keras tensors, it becomes possible to do: model = Model(input=[a, b], output=c)

The added Keras attribute is: _keras_history: Last layer applied to the tensor. the entire layer graph is retrievable from that layer, recursively.
#### Arguments:
- `shape`: A `shape` tuple (integers), not including the batch size. For instance, `shape`=(32,) indicates that the expected input will be batches of 32-dimensional vectors. Elements of this tuple can be None; 'None' elements represent dimensions where the `shape` is not known.
- `batch_size`: optional static batch size (integer).
- `name`: An optional `name` string for the layer. Should be unique in a model (do not reuse the same `name` twice). It will be autogenerated if it isn't provided.
- `dtype`: The data type expected by the input, as a string (`float32`, `float64`, `int32`...)
- `sparse`: A boolean specifying whether the placeholder to be created is `sparse`. Only one of 'ragged' and '`sparse`' can be True.
- `tensor`: Optional existing `tensor` to wrap into the `Input` layer. If set, the layer will not create a placeholder `tensor`.
- `ragged`: A boolean specifying whether the placeholder to be created is `ragged`. Only one of '`ragged`' and '`sparse`' can be True. In this case, values of 'None' in the '`shape`' argument represent `ragged` dimensions. For more information about RaggedTensors, see https://www.`tensor`flow.org/guide/`ragged`_`tensor`s.
#### Returns:

A tensor.
#### Example:

```
 # this is a logistic regression in Keras
x = Input(shape=(32,))
y = Dense(16, activation='softmax')(x)
model = Model(x, y)
```

Note that even if eager execution is enabled, Input produces a symbolic tensor (i.e. a placeholder). This symbolic tensor can be used with other TensorFlow ops, as such:

```
 x = Input(shape=(32,))
y = tf.square(x)
```
#### Raises:
- `ValueError`: in case of invalid arguments.
